hey guys welcome back to my Channel
today we're going to talk about
employment in the US and I know this is
like number one question I'm on any
students who are coming to the u.s.
together education they're like would I
be able to work would I be able to get a
job after I graduate what happens with
my student visa like all of those
questions that I'm getting from you I'm
gonna try and answer them today if you
have any additional questions please
don't forget to ask them in comments
below and one thing to remember I'm not
an immigration attorney I'm just talking
about things based on my own experience
based no student stories based on my own
story of getting a job in the u.s. so if
you're interested continue watching this
video
okay first thing to remember here is
student coming to the US on a student
visa and taking a course at a university
or college you have a right to work on
campus 20 hours a week and it's only on
campus right so what are the canvas jobs
you can work in a cafeteria you can work
in a library you can do all kinds of
things on campus the average pay rate is
ten to fifteen dollars and if you can do
maximum of 20 hours a week it means that
the maximum you can do in terms of money
is like two hundred two hundred fifty
dollars a week which is unfortunately
not enough to cover your tuition fees so
that would be enough to cover your
living expenses maybe renting a room
maybe covering some of your food and
travel but not really covering
everything so this is number one thing
to remember yes you can work off-campus
but only if you get a permit a lot of
programs actually want you to intern in
companies outside the university's
campus but your job has to be connected
with whatever you're studying so if
you're doing masters in marketing this
your second trimester and you just found
a company who's to employ you for again
only 20 hours a week you come to your
international office in the university
and you show them the off the ladder and
you tell them this job is connected with
your subject you cannot just go to
Starbucks and work as a barista only if
the Starbucks is on campus but in all
other cases you need to prove that this
job is connected to whatever you're
studying and if it is you get a CPT
which is an approval to work off-campus
which is again great because the pay
rate can be a little higher but please
remember that you come to the u.s. to
study not to work like studies your
number one goal so please take care of
your GPA attend all of the lectures and
all the seminars because if you study a
while and you graduate you're gonna get
an opt I'm gonna talk about it in a
minute one quick disclaimer sometimes
people like omarina but there is
assistantship which is also work on
campus because you can work as a
lecturer you can work as a
an administrative assistant and if you
get an assistantship big University
covers the total cost sometimes it's the
total cost of your tuition and they give
you a stupid sometimes it's like half of
your tuition which is not even close to
like getting $15 an hour yes this is a
completely different thing this is a
type of financial aid and I'm talking
about it in my other videos so
assistantship is yes that this is
working campus but this is financial aid
it's not awarded to everyone it's only
awarded to those who are eligible who
have good results and have proven that
they're strong academically opt this is
your chance to get work experience in
the u.s. after you graduate
what happens so imagine you just
graduated you've done masters you've
done bachelors you're getting either one
or three years of opt which means you
can work in the u.s. from 1 to 3 years
the length of your opt really depends on
what you study so there are so-called
STEM subjects scientific like science
technology engineering medicine maths IT
like all of those subjects are stem
subjects and if your university decides
that you're masters in IT it's probably
99% stem master's and that means that
you're gonna get a three year work
permit after you graduate if you're
doing masters in economics hidden
masters in psychology masters in
painting or whatever
acting this is not a stem subject
sometimes in rare cases masters in
economics is a stem subject if there's a
lot of like analytics and stuff but this
is something to ask during the
admissions process like is it a stem
subject was the opt that I'm getting
after graduation but normally it's a
one-year opt what happens you graduate
you find a job that's related to the
subject that you've studied and this is
a chance for you to get work experience
in the US and this is what government
does to support you as a student to get
you this real-life experience in
America and later
some people stay I can hear it the best
thing to do is to talk to an immigration
attorney some of the stories that I can
share with you
story number once my story as you know I
haven't graduated I was just accepted
with full financial aid but then I got
some funding our company got funding
from a local VC in Silicon Valley and we
started a company and my own company
sponsored my own visa in owen visa is an
extraordinary ability visa for foreign
entrepreneurs foreign specialists
foreign talented workers and i got it
and after that i got an e b1 which is
also a green card for extraordinary
ability people so this is the way number
one i interact with a lot of graduates
from Stanford Harvard Berkeley and even
like smaller universities that are not
really entrepreneurial I see a lot of
people starting their own companies
getting some local funding while they're
still studying and then applying for the
o1 visa also if you're joining a
start-up as a co-founder and that
startup shows some results like again
funding is a good results impress then
you can apply for the o1 and I would say
humpin all of the visas I've talked to a
lot of lawyers when I was in the same
process you guys I talked to some
lawyers and they were like h-1b I'm
gonna talk about it later h-1b stuff and
one is stuff that visa stuff that was
201 is like if you have some press if
you manage to get some results this is
like your number one choice something to
discuss with a lawyer some lawyers give
free consultations some will charge you
like $250 per hour just do your research
to forums to stuff and find somebody to
work with and honestly I think I've
talked to maybe seven lawyers before I
found mine because every single lawyer
told me I had no chances option number
two as the h-1b visa this is actually
like the mainstream visa for US
university graduates so what happens you
can apply every April just once a year
so you have to be really good specialist
because imagine what happens you apply
in April and you can only start working
in October and there
not a lot of companies that are willing
to wait for you that long so what I
recommend is getting an internship in a
company while you study in a company
that sponsors h-1b visas and please be
careful I the recent news that I've
heard but please don't quote me on that
but I think if Facebook has stopped
sponsoring the visas what they do they
hire you to their Irish office and then
they do the transfer they do the l1 visa
I'm gonna talk about it a little later
so yeah tricky thing so just make sure
the company does h-1bs and so you work
for them for a year you've done your
internship you're still in your opt and
this is a good time to talk to your
manager and tell him hey I actually
wanted to stay in your company and I
need to apply for a visa
do you guys sponsor h-1b and I hope the
answer is yes because then there is the
whole preparation process and then in
April when you apply listen to this they
don't consider every single application
at the immigration office of the US
there's a lottery so there are some
quotas the general quota if you don't
have masters from the US is like 65,000
and on average 200,000 people of life so
there's like on average 30% that a
application would be considered and
after it's considered they're going to
decide whether to approve it or not and
your employer in the US need to prove
that they were not able to find a worker
who already has a u.s. work permit so
it's a complicated process again it's
gonna be your employer your lawyer and
yourself but if you have masters from
the US and if it's from one of the top
universities your chances are slightly
well I would say a lot better one of the
Harvard graduates recently shared with
me that it's 80 percent actually if you
are like Harvard MBA graduate you're
applying for an h-1b there is like 80
percent that you're gonna get it and
still he's applying for the old one so
again I'm just sharing rumors this is
something to remember like if you've
only done your bachelor's in the u.s.
your chances of getting h-1b are a
little lower then if you had gotten
masters in the US and MBAs the same as
masters so bear that in mind if you're
doing a PhD
the typical visa is o1 a lot of
universities sponsor one visa if you
research if you want to stay as a
professor they're gonna use your
publications to file so this is a pretty
common and easy case I would say I know
a lot of researchers who say don't know
one as well as entrepreneurs and another
visa that I mentioned l1 this basically
management transfer so for example
you're working for Facebook in the US on
your opt and then you're like oh my god
guys I want to stay in Facebook and
they're like I'm sorry
we told sponsor pieces anymore we're
gonna put you into Irish office for a
couple of years see how you perform and
then we're gonna do l1 and management
transfer from one office to another this
is how it works but again talk to you
before I'm in an interview with Luba you
can Google how to get a job in Silicon
Valley
she didn't even graduate from an
American University she graduated from a
Canadian University she came to Silicon
Valley to Airbnb to to her internship
and then she applied for a full-time job
and they sponsored her visa so there are
a lot of ways again I think so my
perceptions it's my perception to
everything in this life if you really
want something you're gonna find ways
cuz there are ways there are thousands
of people who are staying in the US and
I know there is like current
administration does really want people
to come to the US I know that companies
want employees I know that there's
shortage of skills in Silicon Valley I
know that people are looking for talents
all the time I know that VC funds are
looking for talent to startups so
whenever you're here in the u.s. like
day one I would start figuring out your
strategy what you're gonna do after you
graduate I would talk to other people I
would listen to success stories I would
talk to lawyers I was just you know be
hands-on everything because when I came
to the 500 setup program on my tourist
visa from day one I started in querying
like how did you guys stay cuz I just
registered in my company in the US and
all of my bank accounts a here and my
investors I here like I don't want to go
back to Russia and do everything
remotely I really want to stay here so
and I guess some of you would have the
same thoughts I got my education here if
you do your bachelor's here in the new
masters you live like third of your life
in the US and you probably wanted to get
a job here as well so these are my
five cents on the work visa situation
after your graduate from an American
University questions below I'll try to
answer some of them if I know the answer
talk to lawyers talk to other people go
to forums research like the more time
you dedicate the better it is for your
process for your outcome because
everything depends on you and I know
you're gonna make it if you want it
you'll be here like you're gonna reach
everything in your life that you want so
thank you so much for watching this
video up to the very end I'm gonna go
back to enjoy my weekend in Yosemite and
I will see you very soon in the next
videos and I hope you're enjoying my new
schedule guys for the next couple of
three weeks because I really want to
like for all of that admissions
information on you as soon as possible
oh my god I almost forgot to tell you
one very important thing DV lottery the
green card lottery play please start
playing it like if your goal is to get
in top in the US start playing it now
the chances are really low like 1%
depending on the on where you're from
but it ranges from like zero point one
to two percent but I know a lot of
people when actually I'm here on this
cottage in Yosemite with a guy whose
wife won a green card lottery when she
was still at a university and they were
studying in Bulgaria and they wanted and
they came here and now they live in
California she does email marketing he
does filmmaking so chances are low but
there are chances so start playing now
the next DV lottery is October 2019
don't miss it okay that was it bye